---
layout: post
title: "Plans for 2018"
description: "Our plans for the new year, celebrating OwO's birthday and the release of Yuri.im (and this blog)."
author: deansheather
tags: [plans, yuri-im, meta]
---

If I'm being honest, 2017 has been a pretty quiet year for OwO. The highlights
are probably limited to moving (twice!), making a bunch of accounts (especially
during invite waves) and launching our private GitLab server,
[owo.codes](https://owo.codes "OwO GitLab"). OwO also recently celebrated it's
birthday on the 10th of December, so happy birthday to OwO! :tada: :cake:
:birthday:

<p>
We currently have 368 users and almost 500,000 objects (which are files and
shortened URLs) as of the time of writing, and 2018 is gonna bring even more
users and objects along with it. As well as some other secret planned stuff too
<strike>like a control panel, updated API, collections (akin to Imgur's albums),
more domains and most importantly many, many more memes</strike>.
</p>

You guys probably have a lot of questions about next year and where OwO is
headed, and I hope I'll be able to answer them with this blog post.

One of the major things I'd like to address is our plan to (eventually) ditch
CloudFlare and use LetsEncrypt for certificate generation. Early in January,
LetsEncrypt plans to release wildcard support for certificate generation which
will allow us to get free wildcarded certificates without CloudFlare.

We don't just use CloudFlare for SSL, however, we also use CloudFlare for DDoS
protection. Instead of paying for DDoS protection on our servers, we hope to
roll out a miniature, self-healing CDN for our files. This is something Aurieh
and I are excited about as it will hopefully increase file download speed, but
we haven't really fleshed it out yet.

Also we'll be rewriting the API in Kotlin :smirk:, fixing up some really
annoying <strike>bugs</strike> features in cdn-origin, fixing [that annoying
`Content-Length` problem](https://github.com/whats-this/cdn-origin/issues/1)
with our CDN's NGINx reverse proxy]and fixing some other issues that have been
around since the beginning of OwO or popped up within the last year that we
haven't really bothered to fix.

The thing that I think most of the users will be pleased to hear, though, is
that we're gonna get a web interface next year. The new API will be able to
record who uploaded a file in a way that won't let us see who uploaded a file
(using hashes), which will allow us to let users view and delete files from a
website using their credentials.

Our PUBLIC (!!!) [Matrix](https://matrix.org) homeserver,
[Yuri.im](https://web.yuri.im) was also launched recently. If you're a fan of
Matrix or decentralized things you should check it out. If it lags out while
joining big rooms, it's fetching event history from other servers so it can
federate properly. That takes a long time in some cases, so give it some slack
if the server is laggy for a few weeks.

I can't spoil everything we have planned otherwise we won't have anything to
surprise you with next year, so that's all for now. I hope everyone has a merry
Christmas and a happy new year.

Also, welcome to the blog. If you want to listen to us bitch and whine about
code and OwO and also talk about :sunglasses: cool coder things :sunglasses: you
can subscribe with that RSS-y looking button at the top. Or
[this link](/feed.xml) if you're lazy. There's also an [about page](/about) that
should help explain what this thing is about. Extra points to us for dark theme,
you can thank us later.
